## Experimental study of un-stationary tip vortex cavitation

# Abstract

    Predicting the underwater radiated noise (URN) from marine propellers is a crucial aspect of modern ship design. The main approaches for predicting propeller noise are model scale tests, CFD computation, and semiempirical methods. The first two methods are more reliable but onerous; as such, they are only used for the design's final verification. On the other hand, the empirical method can provide valuable information when comparing various geometries. Most noise prediction models primarily focus on tip vortex cavitation noise prediction (e.g., the ETV model), which is often the dominant source of URN.
    Generally, the principal parameter of such models is the cavity size (e.g. the tip vortex cavitation size). 
    This quantity is not known as a priori, but it has to be estimated using simplified vortex models. These models are based on the scheme of the 2D stationary vortex. Therefore, they do not account for the actual phenomenon dynamic. 

    The present study aims to accurately measure the size of tip vortex cavitation generated by a marine propeller under nonstationary conditions. 
    The adopted method exploits high-speed video recordings from three distinct cameras alongside computer vision algorithms to provide a three-dimensional reconstruction of tip vortices and their dynamics over time.

    The results highlight the method's capability in characterizing the vortex dimensions and dynamics. These data enable investigation of the effectiveness of commonly used vortex models.

# Authors 
 
    Giovanni Franzosi

    Afaq Ahmed Abbasi

    Michele Viviani

    Giorgio Tani

